IP (Routable protocol):Routing information
---
1. IP Address
2. Sub net masking: To create small network of computer using it..
3. DNS: Domain Name server (DNS name mapping with ip address)
4. Dafault Gateway : If ip address not in local network then go to it for the address which create link to internet also if req....


TCP: Windowing..
-----
Transfer information on small packets...in order for fast transmission called windowing.

Sub network of computer in a boundary called router and talk to other sub network using router.

DHCP(Dynamic host control protocol server): Need to tell the scope (range of ip address can assign)
-----
When computer connect to network it tell abt all ip address to computers..
Automatic distribution of ip address, Sub net masking,Default gateway to all computers...
Set ip address on lease time for which ip address for cmputer remain same...each 50 % time ur computer will ask DHCP server asking to keep same ip.

NAT (Network Address Translation)
----
If there is no NAT then every device need to communicate to internet need its dedicated ip address.
Router has NAT build into it...as internal ip Address is converted to external address for internet...so send and receive information using router.

How to configure NAT server:
---------------------------
Require 2 NIC 1 connected to internet 2 connected to LAN system, server machine

Subnet Masking:
--------------
Ip Address: 4 octet..each octet of 8 bit.
subnet mask tell u in Ip Address which part is network identifier and which part is device identifier.

Now if u don't have router then device in different sub net cannot talk to each other even if they are connected to same physical switch.

Class C (Subnet masking) 255.255.255.0

If i address is 192.168.120.1
Then 192.168.120 is network portion so say 192.168.120.x network and 1 is device identifier in network

No. of host can be connected using sub mask above: 2^8-2 (from left bit of last octet to right portion)
No. of subnet can be connected: 2^8.2^8.2^8

internet->modem (analog to digital signal)->router (with firewall)->switch/hub->subnet computers

Router: For home act as "proxy" (Proxy is an agent or substitute authorized to act for another person) 
------   So give different ip to home computer.

1. Act as default gateway (link to internet for reqested page/remote computer address and uses routing decison to forward to diff interface near to remote computer)
2. Best route to get packet reached network destination (Have route table to map request page->home computer so that received packet can be routed to requested computer).
3. restrict broadcast : break large LAN to small subnet to reduce traffic on network.
4. Move data between network:can also perform 'protocol conversion'

Router configure through NIC (Network interface card) of laptop else can plug in from Outside. 1 NIC-> 1 Network Adapter

SSH tunnelling:
--------------

http://chamibuddhika.wordpress.com/2012/03/21/ssh-tunnelling-explained/


